hey everyone laszlo Montgomery here with
another China history podcast we're
going to definitely go into stoppage
time in this episode but I feel
confident we'll be able to finish off
the life and times of the song Emperor
wait song we left off last time in the
year 1125 the Jurchen army was camped
outside the chi Fong city walls Quaid's
unk had already abdicated and his son
the Prince of Juan became the ching
chong emperor the Jin Cong era had been
proclaimed just as the gene army were
crossing the Yellow River into China
proper fortunately or unfortunately for
Wade's own he had no idea what kind of
weight was going to come crashing down
in his head his minders had kept him in
the dark and shielded wait song from the
seriousness of the situation he thought
he could work out a deal with Wally bull
the son of the gene dynasty founder
agudah but Wally boo wasn't in a deal
making mood he knew the song imperial
government was cornered and hadn't any
options so great was the mismatch in
military power Wally booth and everyone
else in the Jurchen camp had one thing
and one thing only on their minds and
that was all the imperial swag waiting
to be snatched along with all the other
riches of Kaifeng on january fourth 1126
Quaid's own newly abdicated and
preparing for his retirement headed
first to the loud sis rhine in bako
northernmost on way province he could do
it today and two and a half hours but in
wait songs time this was a good two-day
Trek Quaid songs entourage included his
Empress Jung most but not all of his
children a hundred attendance as well as
three of weight songs most trusted
officials tie Oh Tong Guan and Julian
quaint song naively had written quote
because I worry about the ancestral
temples the temples of the soil and
grain and all the people i have
transferred the Great Seal to my ear
order to conform to heavens desires
above and to stop the armies below in
the hope that those near return and
those far-off become obedient the world
becomes peaceful the dynasty has
unlimited blessings and those inside and
outside enjoy the pleasures of peace if
in this way the enemy soldiers put down
their weapons after there is general
peace I will with all my heart observe
the doll and happily live in reclusion
may heaven be my witness I do not dare
to lie once the situation is settled it
will be a great sin to covet my old
responsibilities when the ancient sage
Kings y'all of tongue and Shawn of you
took the blame on themselves things
suddenly flourished let heaven grant me
the heart of such sages unquote chin
song in the meantime was wondering
whether he should stay or show you go
his advisers were mixed on the subject
some said get out of town flee for your
life preserve the dynasty some said to
sit tight and wait it out just pay them
off his closest official who stayed with
him in this desperate hour was Lee gun
Lee gang had faithfully served wait song
and now he was working for the Sun on
January seventh 1126 as wait song went
out the back door Wally blue showed up
at the front door chin song immediately
sent an envoy to deal with them if chin
song thought he'd buy off wale bull
cheaply he was wrong the envoy tried to
cut a deal after having been given a
maximum figure to offer and as a cherry
on top he handed over 10,000 ounces of
gold to Wally boo about 13 million at
today's prices 81 million RMB these
negotiations were all about money and
annual tribute Wally boo was looking to
get as much as he could out of this
situation unlike everyone else in the
region he knew China was rich after a
bit of horse trading a deal was struck
the annual tribute was increased to two
million strings of cash five million
ounces
of gold 50 million ounces of silver two
million lengths of silk ten thousand
horses oxen and mules a thousand camels
and the three prefectures of Thai urine
jongshin and hood jen had to be turned
over to the gene and to ensure
compliance ching chong had to hand over
some hostages within a week the treaty
was signed well it was one thing to
agree to all these demands for gold
silver and silk but it was another thing
to actually cough it up paying off the
Western Shah liao and now the gene that
put a severe strain on the northern song
finances the reserves inside their
version of Fort Knox were running very
low but with Wally boo breathing down
his neck ching chong had to comply or
the situation was sure to deteriorate in
order to produce the gold and silver and
the quantities demanded the palace had
to be stripped of everything and nobles
were requested to hand over all their
wealth from these two precious metals
the temples would be next this period
where the gene army is outside the gates
was a very tense and politically
tortuous time essentially Wally boo and
his army had their boots on the neck of
the song government and we're slowly
bleeding them dry wally boo knew the
song were defenseless and try as they
might to negotiate they had nothing to
bargain with Wally boo planned to bleed
them dry first before finishing them off
on January seventh 11 26 they handed
over three hundred thousand ounces of
gold and 12 million ounces of silver I'm
not sure what the spot price was back in
the 12th century but at today's prices
that's about 375 million dollars in gold
and 225 million dollars in silver 600
million bucks 3.75 billion rmb 440
million euros i'm even by today's
standards has a lot of bracelets and
necklaces
but this amount as great as it was fell
far short to the mark I can't even
imagine the desperation and fear inside
the palace as the government scrambled
to find as much gold and silver as
possible even the citizens of Kaifeng
were called upon to turn in everything
they had the government you know
offering promissory notes of 20 strings
of cash for each ounce of gold and in
one and a half strings for an ounce of
silver a couple weeks later the song
court coughed up another 500 ounces of
gold and 8 million ounces of silver
mostly melted down cutlery and whatnot
turned in by the common folk still Wally
blue wasn't satisfied and to add
pressure inside the palace word reached
Ching song that the Jurchens had started
plundering the royal tombs though no
Emperor's tombs had been defiled yet in
February 10th the nightmare suddenly
came to an end Wally boo and his gin
army packed up and left after snatching
one of Quade xong sons prince shoe
everyone inside the Capitol breathes
sigh of relief let's introduce the other
terror of the gene army this was one yin
yin hun he was a nephew of a Gouda and
one of the top generals in the gene army
Wally boo was the right vice marshal and
Yin han was the left vice marshal Wally
booze mission was chi Fong nian Hans
mission was tiring up in shaanxi nhien
huynh had served the jin dynasty founder
well in crushing the Leal keeton dynasty
these two basically were the main
torturers of the song royal family Quade
zone and practically everyone surnamed
Joe are really going to learn to hate
these guys Wally boo and Yin hon by the
time they breathed their last are going
to really enjoy having some fun making
the lives of weight song and chin song
and their extended families as miserable
and humiliating as poss
so Wally boo took off and just when the
song court breathed a sigh of relief
nhien huynh started to march on kite
clung so fast and furious did Wally boos
army come down in the song army they
hadn't enough time to organize and get
prepared the shock had worn off and now
they were ready to face off against nian
Hans army nhien huynh had heard about
how much booty Wally boo managed a cart
back up to the north and decided he
wanted a piece of that action too so he
started to make his own demands for loot
but first chicken song gave the
following orders once Wally boos army
left quote the gene are returning home
heavily laden there are many carts fully
loaded and they have countless captive
women adding to their high opinion of
themselves if we attack them we will
surely be successful our generals and
soldiers are eager to fight unquote
after being refused by Chin's own nhien
huynh started a march on song China
which was in clear violation of the
treaty just signed with Wally boo but
the Jurchens having the upper hand and
the arrangement felt the terms of the
treaty didn't actually apply to them
wait song in the meantime was heading
southeast first via a cargo boat than a
mule and other transport by january
fifteenth quaid songs entourage reached
Jeong Jeong and jang su province there
he waited things out in relative safety
and waited for word from Kaifeng since
his group was on the run it was referred
to as the mobile court things were
horrible and chi Fong the Song Dynasty
was facing extinction and somebody had
to be blamed for this reversal of
fortune with a new emperor on the throne
the target of reprisals was all focused
on weight songs officials if anyone
deserved to be blamed for the current
dismal situation was them there started
a furious backlash directed at all of
weight songs men ty ching chong guang
guang
full and the eunuch Li on church hung
one fool was stripped of all his posts
and titles and sentenced to exile but
only made it as far as the city walls
before he was beheaded ching chong at
once saw what was going on with his
official seeking retribution so he told
everyone to cool it but this was going
to be another in a long line of Chinese
political paybacks going back to the
Shang Dynasty after one foo came Liang
Chun once all-powerful now demoted and
quickly driven to suicide ching chong
had his own gang of advisers they were
screaming for blood and urged ching
chong to go after wait song and bring
back all his officials who were chiefly
responsible for the mess they were in
and execute them for their crimes they
pointed to the fact that weights on
himself had said he brought on all this
bad luck due to listening to his
officials so this was used as one of the
main reasons to launch a bloody purge of
weight songs advisers no one was more
closely associated with the reign of
weight song than thai ching-he and
anyone else even remotely related to him
were demoted the cause of reform and all
those who carried that banner and
persecuted the conservatives we're now
facing the backlash themselves everyone
all over the world knows this thing
always happens one party is in and then
savages the party who was out for what
they did to them when they were in then
when the party who's in later gets
booted out the whole cycle repeats
itself you know how it is it didn't just
happen in the 12th century not only did
reformers feel the heat venerable
conservatives who had lived in infamy
for two decades were lionized and
statues were built to honor them sim
agun was a good example even though he
had been dead since 1086 because he was
sort of a marquis conservative Ching
songs men held him up as an upstanding
example so wait zone was safe in Chun
Qiang no doubt thoroughly enjoying the
local vinegars he was 400 miles to the
south
and John Jung is located on the south
side of the young zoo if wait song would
have just stayed there but no chin song
on march first 1126 orders his father
back to chi Fong believing the coast was
Claire actually Ching zones advisors had
filled his head with the notion that
Quaid's on was going to possibly set up
a rival government in the south so
better to call him back where they could
keep an eye on him in his final years
and during his most painful and
desperate hours I'm sure Quade song
asked himself over and over why did he
leave the relative safety of such a
cultured and beautiful place such as Jen
gem to return to chi Fong Ching songs
new team were chomping at the bit to get
their hands on ty Jing and the rest of
Quade songs a team who had fled south
with him port I Jing was in his 80s
blind feeble defenseless no matter no
one more than Ty Jing symbolized the
excesses and faults of this regime he
was going to be made to pay for his
heavy handedness all these years and so
in April 1126 waits on return to the
capital it was quite a triumphant
reception and wait song was decked out
in his finest Taoist robes ching chong
sequestered him right away in a place
where he could be watched constantly the
witch hunt for any and all of weight
songs reformer officials went on
unabated they didn't just go after its
hi Ching and his allies they went after
all these dao as to who had risen to
high positions of power thanks to their
manipulative ways with Wade's owned by
July 1126 the persecution of Thai Jing
switched into high gear and in his
eighth decade he was banished and as the
story goes so reviled was his name that
along the way vendors would refuse to
sell his party any food and poor olds
hai Jing one so high and mighty died a
rather
pitiful death on the way to his place of
banishment as for all the others who
accompanied queit song back to chi Fong
Tong Guan taiyo and others they were all
whacked Tom Guan severed head was
displayed in the central market with a
sign listing all his crimes wait song
could say nothing he had no voice in
this government he was holed up in his
little palace and under very strict
control he was aware of all the
Vengeance being meted out against his
former officials who you'll recall from
the first Quade song episode when after
all of Judd zones officials he couldn't
interfere in time the relationship
between wait song and chin song
deteriorated and it became an open
secret that Quade song was a virtual
prisoner meanwhile while all this is
going on Wally boo gone the fighting was
still going on in Thai urine nian Hans
army was pounding the song forces
attempts were made to relieve the
Chinese under siege by nan Hans army but
all came to naught after a 260 day siege
it all ended on September third 11 26
the entire population of thai urine
either starved to death or came pretty
close and now with tiger and taken nian
Hans eyes turned south in the direction
of Chi fun he was only 280 miles away
which meant the gene army was only about
three or four weeks away from the gates
of chi Fong with this in mind the powers
that be inside chi fung all put their
heads together and fulminated over their
options there was a strong call to pull
up stakes and move the capital to chang
on 250 miles due west this was called
quote moving the capital the capital was
wherever the Emperor was by strongly
urging chains on to move the capital
what they were actually saying was they
get out of town homes in the end they
ditched this idea they still thought
they could buy the Jurchens off the end
han was making a grab
the three prefectures north of the
Yellow River that the song army had
fought and negotiated so hard to get
ching chong argued forcefully about this
but with things look in the way they
were he decided to send his nephew
Prince go Joe go to nian Hans camped try
and Palm off a land for peace deal
Prince go was quite songs ninth son and
the younger half-brother of Chin's own I
mentioned this because he shall go and
in accompanying official in their
journey north to meet with yen Han
actually turned into a case of ships
passing in the night and before he knew
it he was way way behind enemy lines
then he found out about what was going
on in the capital and that the gene
invasion had already started so he laid
low and stayed out of sight and you'll
be interested to know this child go he
will be the only one who will escape
capture by the Jurchens after getting
word of what was going down in chi Fong
he will slowly make his way down to lean
on and present-day Hangzhou and it will
be there that he will reconstitute the
Song Dynasty and he'll rain for 35 years
as the first southern song dynasty
Emperor God's own if everyone thought
the worst was over when Wally boo left
they were badly mistaken knee and han
was just getting started as soon as his
army reached the city walls and they got
themselves all in place around November
1126 nhien huynh sent word that if they
agreed to surrender all territory north
of the yellow river then that would be
that and yen Han would pack up and go
home King's Own considered the
circumstances and realized he had only
one choice so he gave in to this demand
that the Yellow River henceforth be the
border between gene and sung he was just
buying time and everyone in the palace
collectively prayed that this would
satisfy the church ends and they would
declare victory and head back north by
November 30th Wally boo decided to come
back so now Ching song had to deal
with these twin terrors at the same time
and backing these two up were a hundred
thousand hardened Jin troops and
November beginning in December 1126 the
siege of Kaifeng was now ready to get
underway this time period is only a
quarter century after the First Crusade
ended and Jerusalem had fallen to the
forces of the Catholic Crusaders this is
going to be a very cruel winter inside
the city walls of chi Fong as the gene
army began setting up all their siege
equipment and got all their ducks in a
row envoys were going back and forth
between Ching song and wala boo and yen
Han frantically trying to negotiate the
song envoys did everything except beg
for mercy that would come later after a
high degree of suffering under extremely
stressful and hopeless conditions the
song army tried everything they could to
slow things down with the Djinn siege
preparations anything that looked or
smelled like a potential projectile of
some sort was catapulted in the general
direction of the Jurchens but it was a
mouse fighting an elephant Wally boo and
yen Han kept trying to trick chin song
into coming out to talk to them
personally or they you know demanded
some high-up royals to be given to them
as hostages for the negotiations no one
budged finally a Hail Mary was attempted
by the song army and they flooded out of
the city gates to face the gene army
head on and it was like walking into a
buzz saw they were decimated the gene
army kept coming at them and in time
after there was nothing else that the
chi Fong City defenders could throw at
them the Jurchens started climbing up
the walls and breached them anyone who
could fight soldier or civilian joined
in since capture meant a fate worse than
death what else could one do let me
quote from Patti breeze book quote on
the morning after the Jurchens took the
outer walls Ching song appeared at the
virtue revealed gate to speak to the
soldiers and
people he asked them what they wanted to
do given the current situation saying no
one would be blamed for the failure to
hold the walls people began shouting
questions and ideas so informally that
some used the ordinary pronouns you and
I instead of your majesty and your
subject some thanked him for staying in
the city and not abandoning them in the
end though the Jurchens were just too
tough to good at fighting and to
numerous they captured the city and in
the heavy falling snow they just torched
it chi Fong and 1126 was still the
greatest city in the world not anymore
right about now the song officials
pulled out the emergency plan and just
begged for mercy and prayed for the most
orderly and dignified surrender as
possible they didn't get either the
Djinn opening salvo was to demand some
hostages in order to keep the peace and
guarantee performance of demands by the
song they wanted weight zone and Prince
Chun chief among them Prince Chun was
ching chong son and heir ching chong
replied to them thusly quote concerning
your desire for the senior Emperor and
the heir apparent to depart for the
suburbs now that the city has fallen the
power over life and death belongs in
your court so how could I resist however
between a father and a son there are
things their hearts cannot bear to do
what if I go myself to your headquarters
to ask for sympathy and beg for their
lives and therefore on November 30th
Ching song went to wallyball and yen
Hans camp to negotiate personally
naturally they made him wait you know
told him hey we've got no time to see
the Emperor of China today you know when
ching chong finally came face-to-face
with them he basically begged them to
leave them be and that he promised they
would send massive amounts of tribute to
the gene for generations to come nan
Hans reply to all this was quote is
there a person or object that is not
already mine they dismissed
ching song and then began making the
first of their demands they said they
wanted 10 million bolts of silk and
satin I don't know how they measured all
that in yards but it's probably more
than walmart or Tesco could sell in a
year they also wanted 5 million bars of
gold with each bar weighing 50 ounces on
top of this they demanded 10 million
bars of silver when the gene officials
marched into the city to begin their
survey they open the Imperial
storehouses and found more than enough
silk to fill the quota but as far as
silver and gold went it wasn't looking
too good as everyone had pretty much
been squeezed dry in no uncertain terms
the song officials were told to go
search every nook and cranny of the city
and find that gold and silver or else
therefore over the next couple weeks
there was an organized effort to
convince the populace of patient hand
over everything and everything they had
that was either a you or AG there was
nowhere near enough gold to even come
close to the 5 million bars being
demanded same with silver and then
during this most desperate hour Wally
boo and Yin hunt began barking out more
demands give me ten thousand horses give
me these weapons give me this cash money
give me that wine 3,000 bottles if you
please everything was handed over and
hopeless attempts to placate these guys
you know by now they had all kinds of
traders working for them and you know
whispering in their ears because the
demands went from these you know trivial
things to paintings to books documents
then they'd demand specific works by sim
iguana and Sue sure the list of ad hoc
demands just never ended Wally boo and
the N hon must have been thoroughly
enjoying themselves what else could they
get they demanded those precious 9
cauldrons that wait song was so proud of
and his tune bells as well they had to
hand that over all kinds of books and
whatnot that quake zone had called for
during his time his precious Taoist
Canon they asked for these two after
they emptied the palace of all these
the next set of demands concerned the
sending of people physicians musicians
astronomers workmen craftsmen we know
all this because meticulous lists were
kept up anything that exited the palace
that included goods and people including
the jaw family Royals and Klansmen
25,000 ancient bronze vessels were among
the booty they also raided the imperial
pharmacy and made off with the best TCM
had to offer back then and 1,000,000
gene of silk thread also on the list but
the genes were stamping their feet and
demanding the same old thing every
Conqueror has wanted since the most
ancient days of recorded history gold
and silver and they weren't getting even
close to the numbers that were being
demanded by mid-december a more
organized effort was made to use drastic
actions to get the common folk to give
up all their rings earrings and hidden
wealth former eunuchs and other
informers were employed by the Jurchens
to snitch and tell who had what and then
they'd get a ten percent cut if any of
the precious metal was found the eunuchs
knew all the details of the royal family
and you know who was who this search for
gold and silver carried on into January
11 27 the searches became more violent
as the days passed that the quota still
wasn't even close to being filled and
the song officials hadn't given up
begging to have it lowered anyone living
in chi fung that January in February
1127 had it rough the gene army had the
place locked down nobody could leave I
don't know if you've ever been to
northern Hunan in the dead of winter but
it ain't too tropical fuel was running
out food was gone human flesh was openly
being sold inside the city walls now the
time had come to start tearing down
parts of government buildings palace
buildings anything that could be burned
as fuel for warmth or cooking weight
songs precious northeast March mount
Park that he had built at over
diculous cost and with agonizing
hardship for the people tasked to go out
all over the country to search out rare
trees and plants rocks do all this had
to be dragged back to chi Fong for wave
zones park by 1120 so loud was the
outcry and fulfilling this task that it
led in directly to the Fong lob
rebellion which turned out to be a
massive hit to the Song Dynasty survival
now these trees too were cut down and
burned up till now Quade song head never
left chi Fong and he rarely ever left
the palace walls because he wasn't a
warrior Emperor who saw China in the
course of a military career he needed
China to be brought to him so he built
this park in a hideous expense and
brought all these different plants trees
and rocks there so that he could wander
at his leisure and feel close to the
land he ruled over like any former
junkie who wishes they had all that
money that they spent on dope Quade xong
must have felt that gold and silver
spent on this park adjacent to the
palace would have been more than enough
to buy the song out of their current
problem it was a mad free-for-all with
all the people desperately trying to get
firewood by tearing down all these
government buildings every attempt by
Chin's own de charme wali born en Han
and to show his respect was just thrown
back in his face and one humiliating way
or another January 10 11 27 chins on
left the palace gates and went to face
his torturers as he waited for Wally boo
and yen Han he was no treated in the
usual shabby disrespectful way jurchen
officials cornered him and shouted that
he must make the Yellow River the
boundary line between China and gene
territory they demanded a princess from
one of the jurchen princess and then
they presented a list of demands for
2,000 items of court paraphernalia 500
common or women 500 musicians among
other things then they forced chin song
in his own hand
to write an edict demanding all the gold
and silver inside chi Fong be handed
over and that he would personally be
held for ransom until the quota was
filled then they had this notice
plastered up all over the place with
chin xong a prisoner inside the gene
camp and out of the picture for the time
being wait song was called back into
action he called for any and all
ceremonial objects no matter how sacred
to be handed over by January nineteenth
11 27 amid starvation cold diseases
raging throughout the city they had
managed to scrape together a hundred and
sixty thousand ounces of gold and six
million ounces of silver and then right
about now gene officials were beginning
to inspect all the song princesses there
were a lot of them and these were going
to be one of the main prizes for the top
church and officers and officials there
were actually thousands of Palace women
princesses consorts performers serving
women courtesans musicians wives and
daughters of officials over 5,000 and
all they had to do the unthinkable with
these women they handed them over to the
gene army the highest-ranking and most
desirable were taken by the officers the
soldiers got the rest on februari 6 11
27 the gym deposed chins on this way
quote at dawn on the 6th the two
commanders ordered the song to enter the
green enclosure camp the song officials
all accompanied him the gym soldiers who
waved that the Imperial Guard should
leave dismounted their horses on arrival
at camp Ching song was ordered to kneel
to hear the edict demoting him to
commoner nhien huynh ordered the gene
officials to take off the younger rulers
hat and robe the loyal song officer Lee
Roche we held on to the Imperial garment
and cursed the commanders he was dragged
out by the soldiers pretty much all this
time wait song was kept somewhat in the
dark as far as the details were
concerned so you can imagine how he must
have felt when the
enormity of the situation finally sunk
in wait song was forced to lead the
procession of the entire Chow royal
family and clan out of the city of chi
Fong when Wade xong arrived in the gene
camp for the first time he was harassed
over the Gyeongju affair remember that
from the last episode he was the casus
belli for the gene the defector who the
song generals had welcomed into their
fold everything was blamed on this if
only waits on hand to talk to John Jay
none of this would have happened Yeah
right it was a wonderful excuse and the
official one Quaid's own told them quote
your country made this a pretext and now
the disaster has reached the point where
my city has fallen and my country is
lost what document would there be
whether I live or die depends on fate
you do not need to make this pretext so
everyone got rounded up the entire song
imperial family an inventory was taken
and everyone's name was checked off the
list wait song as he was taken captive
was said to have been defiant reviling
Wally boo and yen Han for breaking their
end of the treaty and the oaths they had
given most of weight songs consorts
palace ladies daughters daughters in law
all were passed to the Georgia not
soldiers and officers who aids on was
reunited with chin song and there was a
tear full reunion Quade song was allowed
to keep close with part of his family
with him was his Empress Empress Chun
four of his consorts 28 of his sons plus
16 grandsons and seven sons-in-law after
three months of stripping chi Fong of
any and all assets on februari 9 11 27
the people found out their Emperor
wasn't ever coming back and that the new
emperor wasn't even surnamed Joe the
gene chose for their new puppet Emperor
a former grand councilor Jang bong Chang
his new dynasty was called the Chu Zhang
bong Chang in his heart was still loyal
to the song and we'll see as soon as the
Jurchens leave he will
go against them and take steps to
legitimize the succession of the throne
to the escaped Prince go who would be
enthroned on may first 1127 it was
probably at this point that all
concerned were having regrets about not
moving the capital and for not keeping
weight song and relative safety down in
jinjiang chin song was also probably
regretting allowing his officials to
engage in these revenge attacks against
their political rivals rather than
focusing on preparing for the impending
jurchen attack shortly after the
announcement about the new emperor all
the imperial family was slowly
transferred to the Jurchen camp women
who resisted were dealt with violently
and several examples were made of some
who resisted it was quite a calm down to
be living one day as a highborn palace
woman with all the luxuries rights and
privileges that came with the territory
and then the next day living in squalor
and facing some very rough handling with
some very rough men many even became
prostitutes and playthings for common
soldiers they suffered every manner of
indignity a Jurchen writer named Kagome
wrote a record of the song captives he
said 16,000 were taken captive and led
to the gene camps 2,000 died during the
two to four months stay there wala boo
and yon hon had a gas mentally torturing
the captives and humiliating them
especially Ching song quite song and
their Empress's there was nothing like
pushing the highborn and once mighty
around as far as you know entertainment
goes girls and women were committing
suicide left and right Wade's own
continued to try and bargain with his
captors by march chi Fong had pretty
much been wrung dry and after a job well
done the gene forces were ready to leave
back to their homeland Ching song and
Wade's on were handed clothing much like
the common people wore no more Imperial
or Taoist robes allowed on March 23rd
the quote
gold and silver was declared fulfilled
the captured women made up the
shortfalls so 45 year old wave xong was
about to embark on a field trip never to
return March 11 27 Wade's on began
heading north he might have been
thinking about the fall of the later
Jean the puppet state of the Keaton liao
founded a hundred ninety-one years
before by surging tongue in 936 his
successor shirt wrong way defied his lil
masters and for this the later Jean was
quashed in the later Jean Emperor shirt
wrong way was taken into captivity that
was in 947 this Emperor lived on for 17
years and died a hundred and eighteen
years before Wade zone was born the
15,000 are so captives were led north
and seven convoys the first convoy had
2,200 Klansmen male nobles 3,400 clans
women and female nobles the second
convoy was small only 35 people women
children including the wife and mother
of Prince go you know the one ciao royal
who got away these were consorts way and
Shing nhien huynh son personally managed
this one the third convoy had the wives
and concubines of Qin song along with
the couple princesses 37 and all Wade's
on was in the fourth convoy of 1940
persons also traveling with Wade zone
were consorts two of his brothers 19
sons grandsons and sons-in-law and to
round out the convoy were a bunch of
maids who attended to wade song and his
fellow Royals Wally boo to care of the
fifth convoy which had 130 princesses
and consorts of princes plus 142 serving
women the sixth convoy had 3180 women
and 3412 commoners who had special
skills wanted by the Jurchens up north
the final convoy was led by nian han qin
song was in this one along with his sons
daughters 12 officials and
ludington foo her jaw and cinque more
about cinque in a moment convoys one
through six went to yen jing first the
seventh convoy with chin zone took a
circuitous route towards tire n and then
east towards beijing they were divvied
up into groups of five hundred and
driven like cattle by several dozen
church and soldiers all captives either
walked rode on horseback or in an oxcart
there was no chow line or or shirt on
when they set up camp for the night
everyone had to fend for themselves
gather their own firewood cook their own
food april fifth 1127 across the Yellow
River Wade song got to see it for his
first time as they made their way north
the soldiers were already making a
horrible situation even worse by forcing
themselves on the captive women no
matter how highborn they were April
fifteenth they arrived in Yangzhou the
following day one of weight songs
brothers succumbed to starvation in chi
Fong under regular circumstances the
death of the Emperor's brother would
call for all kinds of rituals and
ceremonies now the Emperor's brother was
just dumped in a horse trough and
cremated eight days later they made it
to Jun ding this is around present-day
sure Chuang all this time wait song was
still hoping for a miracle and that
Prince go was going to send a rescue
party Prince go was now the gout song
Emperor and the last thing any Emperor
needs his rival Emperor so he wasn't too
anxious to rescue his father and may
13th they arrived in Yanjing wait songs
group head by now been whittled down to
about 900 they had trekked from chi Fong
dis young Joe to jingzhou 2 jun ding and
now they were in yen jing wait song had
four more stops before he would arrive
at his final destination in a desolate
part of a desolate part of central halo
young a lot of first-person accounts
about this time have made it down to us
there's quite a bit of information the
two main official
counts of these hard years came from
sitel in South shewn Wade's on only now
is getting first news of what had
happened to all the others when other
convoys arrived in Yanjing the attrition
rate had slimmed their ranks and Wade's
own led the relief efforts and made sure
all the newcomers you know had all the
basics suddenly that summer Wally booty
I'd this was right about the time ching
chong and his convoy rolled into town
Quade xong was only in Yanjing for four
months and after that the gene decided
to move the two Emperor's further north
when they pulled out of yen jing about
1,000 in the convoy people lined the
streets and bowed to the Emperor's from
there they went to the gene central
capital they weren't in China proper
anymore the hard times were really upon
them now they stayed there for a year
next stop was the supreme capital
located about where heart beam is today
they got there in the summer August 11
27 when they got to the Supreme capital
I mentioned this in that CHP 28 northern
zone episode they were all forced to
participate in this traditional Church
and ritual they were offerings being
made to this shrine to Agra da let me
quote from patty Bree who quoted one of
the original sources quote at dawn
several thousand enemy soldiers loudly
entered the camp and forced the song
party to go to the temple the two
Emperor's and empresses took off only
their outer garments the rest all had to
bear their upper bodies and wrap a
sheepskin around their waists they were
linked with a felt cord tied to their
hands the two Emperor's led the way into
the curtain Hall along with the sheep to
be sacrificed in the hall was a tenth of
purple curtains with precious vessels
laid out on a hundred mats various
barbarian tunes were played Jean Emperor
tight song this is would seem i remember
him from the last episode
with his wife and concubines his
officials and slaves knelt in the
Barbarian fashion type zone personally
took two sheep to be offered in the hall
everyone from the two Emperor's on down
knelt the ruler proclaimed for amnesties
and the two Emperor's were given ranks
and clothes then waited with the princes
in a small tent outside the hall the
Empress's and consorts then entered the
palace were granted favors then after a
while it was announced that Empress's
Jung and jus there was a chin songs wife
would return to their places at the
completion of the ceremony they changed
into barbarian clothes and came out
patty Bree then continues quote after
the ceremony the women still partly
naked were divided up 300 women from
consorts way and Shing down were
assigned to the palace laundry to work
his palace slaves others were given to
particular men after Empress jus
returned from the ceremony she tried to
hang herself when she was revived she
killed herself by throwing herself into
a pool of water the next day wait song
and chin song were given humiliating
titles Lord of confused virtue and Lord
of double confusion respectively unquote
next stop on the magical mystery tour
was Hanzo this was a good two month trek
from her being where the supreme capital
was located Hanzo was just over the
border in chi lien around the city of
souping where eight hundred and twenty
years later Mao Zedong's PLA will fight
one of the bloodiest and most decisive
battles of the chinese civil war in
hangzhou wade's on got to see 920
members of the Imperial clan for the
first time since this nightmare started
that's all that was left of this group
of 5600 only 16.4 % made it this far by
july 1130 the gene leaders began to feel
some heat and started to think the two
song Emperor's were still too close to
Han China so they moved them again
further away
this is the last time and it's in this
place called Five Nations fort moog
watch hung that Wade's own lived out his
final years this is located in
present-day Ilan County Central
heilongjiang all of Quade zones Klansmen
were sent away to different destinations
Wade's on begged and pleaded to keep the
family together but to no avail only six
other family members accompanied waits
on to five nations fort all men of his
generation ching chong and empress jung
arrived soon after Quaid's own lasted
there for four miserable years he stayed
busy teaching his children reading
believe it or not his calligraphy was
still quite prized and people would send
waves on gifts just for the you know
obligatory thank you note that he would
send in his splendid show jean style
calligraphy it was still quite prized
even up in this northeast corner of
China in 1132 or 1130 three wait song
had a little excitement when one of his
sons and sons and laws accused him of
conspiracy to overthrow the gene an
investigation proved the accusations
groundless and the accusing family
members were executed doubt song said
spies and the occasional envoy to the
gene court to get news of weight song
and offer deals for his release no luck
sometimes the gene wouldn't even let the
envoys return in early 1135 which he my
died Emperor tight song he was replaced
by a much more hon friendly Emperor this
one named sheet song was a grandson of a
Gouda he granted an amnesty to consort
Wei and a few other palace women it
allowed them to join wait song in five
nations ford in april 21st 1135 Quaid's
own died two years later nian han was
executed the gene were already eating
their own seven years later in May of
1142 God song signed a peace treaty with
the gene his mother consort Wei was
allowed to return to the south along
with Quade song and Empress Jung's
offense in galt songs first wife Empress
shins coffin was also returned chin song
he was sent to the Supreme capital he
stayed there until his death in 1161 he
had several children in captivity not
the 16 sons who accompanied wait song to
five nations fort three died in the
first year to more died shortly
thereafter when Wade zone died he had 11
sons remaining to mourn him they were
all given wives and raised families at
five nations fort of Quade songs five
wives including Empress Jung all being
over 35 years old were not considered
highly in demand by the church and
soldiers and always got to stay with
wait zone hoyt song had 14 more children
in captivity wait song was attended to
by UNIX throughout this ordeal his most
loyal officials hideout stayed with wait
so until the bitter end ty tells
writings of this period have been one of
the best records even though he self
censored the content so as not to you
know appear ungrateful in front of the
gene sensors if you're wondering why
they kept moving quaint on further and
further north there's a story behind
that do you remember CHP episode 95
covering UFA he was a great and
legendary military man he served under
God song was even present at the siege
of chi Fong the second one in the
horrible year of 11 27 UFA escaped
capture and death and lived on to fight
back against the gene pushing them back
as they advanced towards the young soo
your if they got a bit of shine on him
for these victories in the Emperor made
him a general because the song army had
you know sort of gotten its act together
and generals like UFA were giving it to
the Jurchens but good the powers in the
gin capital decided to keep moving wave
long as far away from the action as
possible they left nothing to chance UFA
you'll recall heaven tattoo on his back
that red gene Joan bagua and you know
who could forget the immortal words
associated with you fa
Wan hua Shan return my rivers and
mountains but you'll recall the evil
Minister Cinque who had you know made
his way from church in captivity to the
southern song court he advised gout song
to take the appeasement route with the
warring gin and this is exactly what
Emperor Gao song did and as part of this
piece he made with the gene he got
weighed songs cough and back and UFA
being an obstacle to peace with the gene
was done in and for his perfidy Cinque
was also done in and from that we all
got yo tell our cheverie one to go visit
the year-long meow the UFA temple if you
ever find yourself in Hangzhou and so me
little beauties that's the story of
Wade's own Patricia Buckley bree is the
author the book is called Emperor Wade
zone you got a las laa Montgomery
patented skim job only so I encourage
anyone looking for a bit more color and
detail to go get that one I have a link
on my website so what are we supposed to
make of this Emperor on the good side he
was he was a champion of great causes
like in building a nationwide school
system establishing charities for the
sick poor widows and homeless his
sponsorship of so many great
compilations of books including works on
medicine and you know everything he did
for standardizing and compiling a new
Taoist Canon his incredible sponsorship
of the arts and literature spawned some
of the greatest works ever he did so
much to reform court music and even
though it all ended up being carted away
to Manchuria by the Jurchens no other
Emperor could surpass Quaid's long as an
artist or as a royal collector of art
the ceremonial objects antiques and
books but on the negative side old
Wade's own was a little too full of
himself and craved adulation he fell
victim to flattery and was easy to
manipulate his sense of his own
invincibility was too great he didn't
listen to people he should have and
listen
too much to people he shouldn't have
wait song at a habit of always ignoring
good advice his decision to join the
gene in an alliance against the kitten
Lau proved a fatal error and no one ever
forgave him for his pulled dowas I'm
kick and for falling under the spell of
lending sue during the you know 1117 to
11 19 period in all of Chinese history
no Emperor topped Wade's long as far as
hardcore adherence to Taoism especially
the sect that equate song embraced I
mentioned wait songs northeast Marchmont
park that was built at a crippling cost
as I mentioned that sure came back to
haunt him later and historians haven't
been too kind at the so-called six
traders who are mostly blamed for the
fall of the northern song through their
handling of Wade's on these were of
course hi jing Tong Guan hua Zhu Li Yin
Xiu Yin and the eunuch Li unsure Chung
yeah some good some bad but what a life
don't you think that would be a movie i
could sit through maybe Johnny mo will
consider doing it anyway that's everyone
we're going to fast-forward 700 years
for the next episode I hope you'll
consider listening my good friend James
dampier and Canberra put out two nice
ones in his aussie waves podcast check
out those May fourth and May twentieth
episodes on the Chinese and the gold
rush and famous Chinese Australians
Penguin Books China just came out with a
series of books under the penguin
specials imprint just in time for the
hundredth anniversary of the start of
the Great War for books for topics
related to China's involvement in World
War one written by four authors mark
o'neill robert bickers Paul French and
Jonathan fenby Paul French if you
haven't read midnight and peking go do
it he's one of my favs Jonathan fen B's
the
penguin history of modern China the
Fallen rise of great power 1852 2009 a
long stalwart in the China history
podcast reference library if you haven't
heard it already catch that lay to
seneca episode from May thirtieth Kaiser
Jeromy and David welcoming Jessica by
Nicki yes by gia herself great show
everyone and great talk about how
important and effective individuals can
be and building lasting bridges between
nations and cultures Tuttle publishing
based up in beautiful Vermont came out
with a book called Chinese bridges these
are the real bridges it's a beautiful
book like everything Tuttle does all the
bridges and all the regions of China the
photos history and backstory cheered the
cun that book out Chinese bridges by
Ronald gene nap at Tuttle publishing com
Ronald gene nap of course the author of
so many beautiful and informative books
on Chinese architecture culture and
design i'm off to shanghai beijing and
guangzhou june seven just a few days in
each place i hope you all enjoyed this
four-part series on the life of weights
on one last time the book is Emperor
waits on a University of Washington
professor Patricia Buckley Avery this is
laszlo Montgomery once again signing off
from the eastern edge of LA County yes
the town of claremont in the socal part
of the state wishing you all the very
best and I hope you'll join me next time
maybe for another exciting episode of
the China history podcast